docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Educational AI & Humanoid Robotics: Complete Course

## Course Overview

This comprehensive textbook provides an in-depth exploration of Educational AI and Humanoid Robotics, designed for advanced undergraduate and graduate students, researchers, and professionals. The course combines theoretical foundations with practical implementations, focusing on AI techniques applied to humanoid robotics systems.

The textbook covers essential topics from ROS 2 fundamentals to state-of-the-art Vision-Language Models (VLMs) and their application in robotic planning and control. Students will learn to develop intelligent humanoid robots capable of complex interactions with their environment and humans.

## Course Structure

The course is divided into 7 modules, each building upon the previous one:

### Module 1: Introduction to Educational AI and Humanoid Robotics
- Historical context and current applications
- Key challenges in humanoid robotics
- Educational applications of humanoid robots
- Ethics and societal implications

### Module 2: ROS 2 Fundamentals for Humanoid Robotics
- ROS 2 architecture and communication patterns
- Building humanoid robot software with ROS 2
- Package management and workspace organization
- Debugging and visualization tools

### Module 3: Vision-Language Models in Robotics
- Foundation models for robotic perception
- VLM architectures and embedding techniques
- Planning with vision-language models
- Integration with robotic control systems

### Module 4: Simulation Environments
- Gazebo simulation for humanoid robots
- Isaac Sim and NVIDIA tools
- Unity robotics toolkit
- Physics modeling and sensor simulation

### Module 5: Humanoid Robot Control Systems
- Kinematics and dynamics of humanoid robots
- Walking and locomotion algorithms
- Manipulation and grasping strategies
- Balance and stability control

### Module 6: Human-Robot Interaction
- Natural language interfaces for humanoid robots
- Social robotics principles
- Multi-modal interaction design
- Educational interaction scenarios

### Module 7: Projects and Applications
- Designing educational robot applications
- Integration of complete humanoid systems
- Project development and evaluation
- Future directions in humanoid robotics

## Learning Objectives

By the end of this course, students will be able to:

1. **Understand ROS 2 Architecture**: Comprehend the fundamentals of Robot Operating System 2 for distributed robotic applications
2. **Apply VLM Techniques**: Implement Vision-Language Models for robotic perception and planning
3. **Design Control Systems**: Develop control algorithms for humanoid robot locomotion and manipulation
4. **Simulate Humanoid Robots**: Create and test humanoid robot behaviors in simulation environments
5. **Integrate AI Components**: Combine multiple AI systems into cohesive humanoid robot platforms
6. **Evaluate Human-Robot Interaction**: Assess and design effective communication between humans and robots

## Interactive Learning Platform

This textbook is integrated with an interactive learning platform that includes:

- **Educational AI Agents**: Specialized assistants for different robotics domains
- **Simulation Integration**: Direct access to simulation environments
- **Robot Control Interface**: Real-time robot monitoring and control
- **Exercises and Projects**: Hands-on learning experiences

## Prerequisites

Students should have:

- Basic programming experience (Python and C++)
- Understanding of linear algebra and calculus
- Introduction to robotics concepts
- Familiarity with machine learning fundamentals

## Assessment

- **Labs and Exercises (30%)**: Hands-on implementation of concepts learned
- **Midterm Project (25%)**: Development of specific humanoid robot capabilities
- **Final Project (35%)**: Complete humanoid robot system implementation
- **Participation (10%)**: Engagement in discussions and peer reviews

## Resources

- [API Documentation](/docs/api/overview)
- [Simulation Environment Guide](/docs/simulation/gazebo)
- [ROS 2 Tutorial](/docs/ros/fundamentals)
- [VLM Implementation Guide](/docs/vlm/introduction)

Commit message:

Add Quiz Agent and Personalization Agent features to the textbook

docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Educational AI & Humanoid Robotics: Complete Course

## Course Overview

This comprehensive textbook provides an in-depth exploration of Educational AI and Humanoid Robotics, designed for advanced undergraduate and graduate students, researchers, and professionals. The course combines theoretical foundations with practical implementations, focusing on AI techniques applied to humanoid robotics systems.

The textbook covers essential topics from ROS 2 fundamentals to state-of-the-art Vision-Language Models (VLMs) and their application in robotic planning and control. Students will learn to develop intelligent humanoid robots capable of complex interactions with their environment and humans.

## Course Structure

The course is divided into 7 modules, each building upon the previous one:

### Module 1: Introduction to Educational AI and Humanoid Robotics
- Historical context and current applications
- Key challenges in humanoid robotics
- Educational applications of humanoid robots
- Ethics and societal implications

### Module 2: ROS 2 Fundamentals for Humanoid Robotics
- ROS 2 architecture and communication patterns
- Building humanoid robot software with ROS 2
- Package management and workspace organization
- Debugging and visualization tools

### Module 3: Vision-Language Models in Robotics
- Foundation models for robotic perception
- VLM architectures and embedding techniques
- Planning with vision-language models
- Integration with robotic control systems

### Module 4: Simulation Environments
- Gazebo simulation for humanoid robots
- Isaac Sim and NVIDIA tools
- Unity robotics toolkit
- Physics modeling and sensor simulation

### Module 5: Humanoid Robot Control Systems
- Kinematics and dynamics of humanoid robots
- Walking and locomotion algorithms
- Manipulation and grasping strategies
- Balance and stability control

### Module 6: Human-Robot Interaction
- Natural language interfaces for humanoid robots
- Social robotics principles
- Multi-modal interaction design
- Educational interaction scenarios

### Module 7: Projects and Applications
- Designing educational robot applications
- Integration of complete humanoid systems
- Project development and evaluation
- Future directions in humanoid robotics

## Learning Objectives

By the end of this course, students will be able to:

1. **Understand ROS 2 Architecture**: Comprehend the fundamentals of Robot Operating System 2 for distributed robotic applications
2. **Apply VLM Techniques**: Implement Vision-Language Models for robotic perception and planning
3. **Design Control Systems**: Develop control algorithms for humanoid robot locomotion and manipulation
4. **Simulate Humanoid Robots**: Create and test humanoid robot behaviors in simulation environments
5. **Integrate AI Components**: Combine multiple AI systems into cohesive humanoid robot platforms
6. **Evaluate Human-Robot Interaction**: Assess and design effective communication between humans and robots

## Interactive Learning Platform

This textbook is integrated with an interactive learning platform that includes:

- **Educational AI Agents**: Specialized assistants for different robotics domains
- **Interactive Quiz Agent**: AI-powered quizzes based on textbook content to test your knowledge and reinforce learning
- **Personalization Agent**: Customizes textbook content to match your individual learning preferences and goals
- **Simulation Integration**: Direct access to simulation environments
- **Robot Control Interface**: Real-time robot monitoring and control
- **Exercises and Projects**: Hands-on learning experiences

## Prerequisites

Students should have:

- Basic programming experience (Python and C++)
- Understanding of linear algebra and calculus
- Introduction to robotics concepts
- Familiarity with machine learning fundamentals

## Assessment

- **Labs and Exercises (30%)**: Hands-on implementation of concepts learned
- **Midterm Project (25%)**: Development of specific humanoid robot capabilities
- **Final Project (35%)**: Complete humanoid robot system implementation
- **Participation (10%)**: Engagement in discussions and peer reviews

## Resources

- [API Documentation](/docs/api/overview)
- [Simulation Environment Guide](/docs/simulation/gazebo)
- [ROS 2 Tutorial](/docs/ros/fundamentals)
- [VLM Implementation Guide](/docs/vlm/introduction)
